Hello, I am SAM, standing for Software Automatic Mouth. I will be reading the manual for the Ultimate Periodic Waveform Generator. This is the manual for the Ultimate Periodic Waveform Generator, a specialized web synthesizer for creating raw periodic waveforms. The two outlined boxes you see are the visualizers, with the one on the left being for seeing what the waveform looks like, and the one on the right being for visualizing the sound that gets produced. The section in the middle is for actually changing what the waveform looks like... The top three items are for storing presets that you make for some reason. (Maybe you wanna switch between them quickly without having to manually type in all of the settings.) The first input will be what index you want to store your preset at, and the second input is the name you want to give it (mainly used in exporting the wave). The "Load Preset" button loads the preset at the selected index. You can't use the name to find your preset... The next twelve inputs control the actual waveform, with the slider controlling the sound output volume (not the amplitude of the wave).. The second input is self-explanatory: how many harmonics should your waveform have. The one after the dampens the overtones, useful for creating soft and smooth waveforms, like a triangle waveform, and its variants.. The fourth-to-last input controls the sample rate of the waveform visualization, making it more or less detailed. It does not control any part of the waveform or the sound. The third-to-last input, which is a button, sets ALL parameters to their default values (which makes a sawtooth waveform). The second-to-last input, which is also a button, synthesizes your waveform. This can't be done in real time because there would be a lot of lag (not because I couldn't or didn't do it). The final input, which is a checkbox (or circle, as it looks), controls what the wave visualization is. If left unchecked, it displays the normal waveform visualization, but if checked, it displays the very informative "sine wave visualization," which shows the waveform as all of the individual sinewaves it's made of. (It gives you a little insight into how the waveform is made, which includes its visualization.).. Now onto the 12 parameters we've skipped over, which have three control sections: overtone control, amplitude control, and phase control.. The overtone control section controls the spacing between the overtones of the waveform, resulting in strange shapes and strange sounds. Firstly, ALL of these parameters must be integers (whole numbers) or you won't HEAR anything. The site automatically converts any decimal number in the "wavetype" and "shift" parameter inputs to their proper form, but not for pull, since it doesn't have a strange relation to the other parameters. The "wavetype" parameter controls the density of overtones by changing the starting overtone. The "shift" parameter additively controls the spacing between overtones, and "pull" multiplicitively controls the spacing between overtones. Wavetype and shift work together in a very hard-to-describe way. Basically, if we imagine the wavetype as being the numerator to a fraction and the shift as being the denominator to a fraction, then we can see that there are certain sequences of fractions (such as x divided by 2x minus 1) that follow a trend, and certain rules that can be used to figure out what a given set of parameters would look and sound like as waveforms. Pull also plays a role in this to get some weird sounds. If pull is greater than 1 or less than negative 1, then you get glockenspiel-like sounds. But if pull is equal to negative 1, then you get a whole new set of cool sounds. If pull is 0, you get the second easiest way to make a sine wave... What a headache, I had a mini-headache while writing this, too.. The amplitude control section explicitly controls the amplitudes of certain overtones. The first two parameters are the same thing; that's why they both have "overtone comb number" as their placeholder. The "overtone comb" silences all overtones whose index is a multiple of the number in the input. This allows you to get pulse waves besides the square waveform; although they look more like step waves, they still sound like pulse waves. Having two of these "combs" is cooler than having one, so you can get cooler-looking stuff, and I have to do less thinking stuff.  The final parameter, "overtone tension," acts like the "overtone damping" parameter from earlier, but different... The final section is the phase section. While phase minusculely affects the sound, it does change how the sine waves interact with each other, which does change the sound GREATLY, if two or more of the waves are playing simultaneously. Plus, if you play an extremely phase-shifted waveform at a very low frequency, then it may sound like a kind of noise, or even lasers. Like the amplitude section, the first two parameters are basically the same thing, with one difference. "Phaser comb 1" changes the phase of all sine waves whose index is a multiple of the number in the input by 180 degrees / pi radians. "Phaser comb 2" changes the phase of all sine waves whose index is a multiple of the number in the input by 90 degrees / pi divided by 2 radians. The "sinusoidal phaser" changes the phase of any overtone by an angle, to say quite literally the least. It works off the fact that the phase of any sine wave is really just an angle around a circle.